Recipe for coupled pallets (#272)
JoshOrndorff/recipes: text/3-entrees/pallet-coupling.md

# Tightly- and Loosely-Coupled Pallets

_[pallets/check-membership](https://github.com/substrate-developer-hub/recipes/tree/master/pallets/check-membership)_

> The check-membership crate houses two pallets which solve the same problems in slightly different

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `check-membership` crate contains two pallets that solve the same problems in slightly different
```

ways. Both pallets implement a single dispatchable function that can only be successfully executed
by callers who are members of an
[access control list](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Access-control_list). The job of maintaining the
access control list is abstracted away to another pallet. This pallet and the membership-managing
pallet can be coupled in two different ways which are demonstrated by the tight and loose variants
of the pallet.

## Twin Pallets

Before we dive into the pallet code, let's talk a bit more about the structure of the crate in the

> `pallets/check-membership` directory. This directory is a single rust crate which contains two

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`pallets/check-membership` directory. This directory is a single Rust crate that contains two
```

pallets. The two pallets live in the `pallets/check-membership/tight` and

> `pallets/check-membership/loose` directories. In the crate's main `lib.rs` we merely export each of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`pallets/check-membership/loose` directories. In the crate's main `lib.rs` we simply export each of
```

these variants of the pallet.

```rust, ignore
pub mod loose;
pub mod tight;
```

This allows us to demonstrate both techniques while keeping the closely related work in a single
crate.

## Controlling Access

While the primary learning objective of these twin pallets is understanding the way in which they
are coupled to the membership-managing pallets, they also demonstrate the concept of an access

> control list which we will investigate first.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
control list, which we will investigate first.
```

It is often useful to designate some functions as permissioned and, therefore, accessible only to a
defined group of users. In this pallet, we check that the caller of the `check_membership` function
corresponds to a member of the permissioned set.

The loosely coupled variant looks like this.

```rust, ignore
/// Checks whether the caller is a member of the set of Account Ids provided by the
/// MembershipSource type. Emits an event if they are, and errors if not.
fn check_membership(origin) -> DispatchResult {
	let caller = ensure_signed(origin)?;

	// Get the members from the vec-set pallet
	let members = T::MembershipSource::accounts();

	// Check whether the caller is a member
	ensure!(members.contains(&caller), Error::<T>::NotAMember);

	// If the previous call didn't error, then the caller is a member, so emit the event
	Self::deposit_event(RawEvent::IsAMember(caller));
	Ok(())
}
```

## Coupling Pallets

Each `check-membership` pallet actually contains very little logic. It has no storage of its own and

> a single extrinsic. Which does the membership checking. All of the heavy lifting is abstracted away

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a single extrinsic that does the membership checking. All of the heavy lifting is abstracted away
```

> to another pallet. There are two different ways in which pallets can be coupled to one another, and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to another pallet. There are two different ways that pallets can be coupled to one another and
```

this section investigates both.

### Tight Coupling

The conceptually simpler way of coupling pallets is known as "tight coupling". When tightly coupling

> to another pallet, you specify the depended pallets name explicitly as a trait bound on your

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
to another pallet, you specify the depended upon pallet's name explicitly as a trait bound on your
```
?

pallet's configuration trait. This is demonstrated in the tightly-coupled variant of

> `check-membership`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tightly coupling pallets is more explicit than loosely coupling them. When you are writing a pallet that
you want to tightly couple with some other pallet as a dependency, you explicitly specify the name of
the pallet on which you depend as a trait bound on the configuration trait of the pallet you are writing.
This is demonstrated in the tightly coupled variant of `check-membership`.
```

Reviewer 2: This is the better version imo!

```rust, ignore
pub trait Trait: system::Trait + vec_set::Trait {
	// --snip--
}
```

> > This pallet, and all pallets, are tightly coupled to `frame_system`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> This pallet, and all pallets, are tightly coupled to `frame_system`.
```

> > This pallet, and all pallets, are tightly coupled to frame_system

Reviewer: Nice I really like this aside
```suggestion
> This pallet, and all pallets, are tightly coupled to `frame_system`
```

> Supplying this trait bound means that the tightly-coupled variant of `check-membership` pallet can

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Supplying this trait bound means that the tightly coupled variant of `check-membership` pallet can
```

Author: I belive this is also correct as written https://english.stackexchange.com/questions/113422/how-to-use-hyphens-appreopriately-when-listing-multiple-hyphenated-terms (same link)

Reviewer: That link is about hyphenating words that appear in a list, and I'm not sure if that's relevant here. My suggestion was in reference to [Rule #3 from here](https://www.grammarbook.com/punctuation/hyphens.asp), for instance.

> only be installed in a runtime that also has the [`vec-set` pallet]() installed. We also see the

Reviewer: Looks like there is a missing link here :monkey:

Author: ```suggestion
only be installed in a runtime that also has the [`vec-set` pallet](./storage-api/vec-set.md) installed. We also see the
```

tight coupling in the pallet's `Cargo.toml` file, where `vec-set` is listed by name.

```toml
vec-set = { path = '../vec-set', default-features = false }
```

> When it comes time to actually get the set of members, we have access to the getter function

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To actually get the set of members, we have access to the getter function
```

declared in `vec-set`.

```rust, ignore
// Get the members from the vec-set pallet
let members = vec_set::Module::<T>::members();
```

While tightly coupling pallets is conceptually simple, it has the disadvantage that it depends on a

> specific implementation rather than an abstract behavior. The tight version of `check-membership`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
specific implementation rather than an abstract interface. This makes the code more difficult to maintain over time and is generally frowned upon. The tightly coupled version of `check-membership`
```

depends on exactly the `vec-set` pallet rather than a behavior such as managing a set of accounts.

## Loose Coupling

Loose coupling solves the problem of coupling to a specific implementation. When loosely coupling to

> another pallet, you add an associated type to the pallets configuration trait, and ensure the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
another pallet, you add an associated type to the pallet's configuration trait and ensure the
```

supplied type implements the necessary behavior by specifying a trait bound.

```rust, ignore
pub trait Trait: system::Trait {
	// --snip--

	/// A type that will supply a set of members to check access control against
	type MembershipSource: AccountSet<AccountId = Self::AccountId>;
}
```

> Having this associated type means that the losoely-coupled variant of the `check-membership` pallet

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Having this associated type means that the loosely coupled variant of the `check-membership` pallet
```

Author: https://english.stackexchange.com/questions/113422/how-to-use-hyphens-appropriately-when-listing-multiple-hyphenated-terms

Reviewer: I'm not sure if this relevant because this is not a list of hyphenated items. Even if you decide to leave the hyphen here, please note that the word "loosely" is also misspelled.

can be installed in any runtime that can supply it with a set of accounts to use as an access
control list. The code for the `AccountSet` trait lives in `traits/account-set/src/lib.rs` directory
and is quite short.

```rust, ignore
pub trait AccountSet {
	type AccountId;

	fn accounts() -> BTreeSet<Self::AccountId>;
}
```

> We also see the loose coupling in the pallet's `Cargo.toml` file, where `account-set` is listed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We also see the loose-coupling in the pallet's `Cargo.toml` file, where `account-set` is listed.
```

Reviewer 2: Not sure I agree with this change suggestion. Why do you reckon the hyphen is needed here?

```toml
account-set = { path = '../../traits/account-set', default-features = false }
```

> When it comes time to actually get the set of members, we have use the `accounts` method supplied by

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When it comes time to actually get the set of members, we have to use the `accounts` method supplied by
```

> the trait.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To actually get the set of members, we use the `accounts` method supplied by the trait.
```

```rust, ignore
// Get the members from the vec-set pallet
let members = T::MembershipSource::accounts();

> ```

Reviewer: I'd love to see you tie this back to how FRAME uses loose coupling...I thought it was really nice how you did that with FRAME System.

Author: Agree. Done in 707a5c0
